<h1>ENERGY PRICE PREDICTION</h1>
The "Energy Consumption, Generation and Prices" dataset is a collection of data related to energy consumption, generation, prices, and weather from different regions of the world. This dataset was created by Nicholas Jhana, who collected and combined data from various sources. The dataset is available on Kaggle.

<h3>ABOUT DATASET</h3>
This dataset is useful for researchers and data analysts who are interested in studying the patterns of energy consumption, generation, prices, and weather in different regions of the world. The data can be used to develop predictive models for energy consumption and generation, as well as to understand the impact of weather on energy consumption and generation.

<h3>COLUMNS</h3>

1)generation biomass-Power generated by biomass

2)generation fossil brown coal/lignite-Power generated by fossil brown coal/lignite

3)generation fossil gas-power generated by fossil gas

4)generation fossil hard coal-power generated by fossil hard coal

5)generation fossil oil-power generated by fossil oil

6)generation hydro pumped storage consumption-power generated by pumped storage consumption(This is used as an emergency power resource)

7)generation hydro run-of-river and poundage-power generated by hydro run

8)generation hydro water reservoir-power generated by water reservior

9)generation nuclear-power generated by nuclear energy

10)generation other-power generated by other sources

11)generation other renewable-power generated by other renewable energies other than mentioned in the dataset

12)generation solar-power generated by solar energy

13)generation waste-power generated by waste

14)generation wind onshore-power generated by wind onshore

15)total load actual-This is the dependent varibale.It tell us about the total load consumption.

16)temp- Temperature of the area when load consumption was recorded

17)pressure-Pressure of the area when load consumption was recorded

18)humidity-Humidity of the area when load consumption was recorded.

19)wind_speed-Wind speed of the area when load consumption was recorded.

20)wind_deg-Wind direction of the area when load consumption was recorded.

21)rain_1h-It tells us about the intensity of rainfall.

22)snow_3h-It is divided into 4 values and tells us about the intensity of snowfall.

23)weather_id-It gives us 23 values of different weather condition.

24)weather_main-Even this column tells us about the weather condition i.e whether it was clear or cloudy or it was raining when the load was recorded.

25)weather_description-It tells us about the overcast,whether it was raining or sunny.

26)time-It gives us the date and time when load was recorded

<h3>METHODOLOGY</h3>

Data Cleaning: Cleaning the data and removing any inconsistencies or missing values.

Exploratory Data Analysis: Analyzing the data to understand the relationships between different variables and identifying any patterns.

Feature Engineering: Creating new features based on the existing data to improve the performance of the machine learning models.

Machine Learning: Building and training machine learning models using the cleaned and engineered data to predict the energy prices.

Model Evaluation: Evaluating the performance of the machine learning models using various metrics and selecting the best performing model.

Prediction: Using the best performing model to predict the energy prices for a given time period.

Hyperparameter Tuning : Inorder to increase the accuracy, Hyperparameter Tuning has been done but the it was not sucessfull.

<h3>MODEL</h3>
The model used in this project is a Random Forest Regressor. The model was trained on the training set and evaluated on the test set. Various evaluation metrics were used to assess the performance of the model.

<h3>DATA SOURCE</h3>
This dataset contains 4 years of electrical consumption, generation, pricing, and weather data for Spain. Consumption and generation data was retrieved from ENTSOE a public portal for Transmission Service Operator (TSO) data. Settlement prices were obtained from the Spanish TSO Red Electric España. Weather data was purchased as part of a personal project from the Open Weather API for the 5 largest cities in Spain and made public here.

You can download the dataset from this link : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nicholasjhana/energy-consumption-generation-prices-and-weather?select=energy_dataset.csv

<h3>CONCLUSION</h3>

Using this real time dataset of consumption and generation of Spain, I have tried to predict the energy price depending upon different parameters, such as generation from different sources.

Using Randon Forest Regression Model I got an accuracy of 66.08%.

Further tried to improve the accuracy using Hyperparameter Tuning and got a grid search best score of 0.6117.

At the end using actual and predicted score scatterplot and lineplot are drawn.












